 bought the 'mother'  from user "plusenergy" on ebay-- several times.  Around $4 I think.

They have sold for several years.
http://www.ebay.com/usr/plusenergy

There is also an online set of instructions here:
  http://www.happyherbalist.com/kombucha_brewing_guide.htm

This is pretty close to what I do.

-------
Here is what *I* do....

To make a gallon ( final 7-8 15oz bottles)
Needed:
  SCOBY = symbiotic colony of Bacteria and Yeast (no kidding)
  1-2 cups ‘starter’ tea per gallon to get it acidic
  1 gallon brewing container (I use large mouth 1-gallon glass fish-bowl)
  8-tea bags per gallon (I use organic white tea, green and black are also fine, *not* herbal/hibiscus/dar-jeeling/earl-grey)
  1 gallon of good water, Do *not* use reverse-osmosis or distilled water, ‘filtered’ tap water or bottled water is fine.  It needs the minerals.
  1 ½ cups sugar to start
  Coffee filter or something to cover your ‘brew’ bowl, to let in oxygen to keep out dust and airborne stuff.

Next week (bottling week) and every subsequent week you will need (stuff from first week plus) :
  Bottles to hold your kombucha
  Lids for those bottles
  1 to 1.5 Tablespoon per gallon of sugar for carbonation

Make a batch:
------------------
Start with COLD water.
Boil up 1/3 to 1/2 gallon of water for tea, and put bags in.  Let it sit for at least a half-hour and cool after boiling with bags in.
I add COLD water to this to bring up to nearly 3 quarts-ish and to lower the temperature.
Add your 1.5 cups of sugar at this point and stir it in.  You now have sweet tea.

You want to be sure that tea is not too hot which may damage SCOBY.
The closer to room temperature the better.


Create your Starter
-------------------------
Remove the SCOBY and put aside in a clean bowl.
Stir your Kombucha briskly to get an even sample, and extract 2 cups for next batch and pour on your SCOBY.  This is starter for next batch.
On subsequent weeks, the SCOBY will double in size.  I separate and toss the LOWER portion (the original SCOBY) and keep the upper.

Bottling
----------
If you want CO2, you can add bottling sugar to whole batch—or alternatively, you can add small amount of sugar to each bottle instead.

Stir Kombucha really well, stirring in some air as you do it, this helps make each bottle the same taste in this batch.
Nearly fill each bottle leaving some AIR in it (how much air depends on bottle shape, but bottles should NOT be FULL).

I fill my bottles to 3-quarters full, and top up a little bit with water to make them all the same height.
I leave my bottles for 2nd ferment for carbonation at least a week.
Then refrigerate to stop fermentation for a couple of days and give it a try.  The ‘head’ is affected by how long you keep it cold, as trapped air is in smaller space, making a root-beer-like head if you keep it cold for a while, and a more loosely bubbly mix if you don’t.


Next Batch
------------- -
Pour sweet-tea and starter culture into your brewing container.
Top up to 1gallon with room temperature water.
Cover with coffee filter or similar.
Set aside for 7-10 days.


NOTES:

HOW TO KNOW WHEN IT’S DONE?
I tried testing PH. and did not find that a good indicator.  Basically, I just poke a straw into the center, put my finger on the back of the straw and remove a sample --- and taste it.  If it is sweet, let it sit longer.  If you leave it too long it may get too strong or too acidic.  Strong stuff can be watered down (literally mix with water) or just used as a starter for trying again.

Basically -- If temperature and recipe is ‘stable’ then results are repeatable.  I find 8 days about right for me.



Can I FILTER this?

Sure, I used cheese cloth at first and filtered everything.  I have since abandoned that as too much trouble.



What about strange colors?

The liquid will contain brownish Lees from yeast growth, and perhaps some residue from the tea itself.  If the cellulose “cap” of the mother gets funny colors, you may want to cut out that part, or get another SCOBY just to be safe.  I have only had that happen when my coffee filter was removed and something fell into my brew container.  I started over.  Never keep it around if anything FUZZY grows.  That means that your brew was not acidic enough to retard mold growth and you may have off-tastes at least.  Toss it.  The cellulose will trap some of the tea color over time anyway.



What about adding flavors?

Add to the bottle or to the mix when adding sugar.  Remember that you don’t want to introduce anything else into the brewing container that may change the SCOBY, since you are reusing a portion of if next time.  Only introduce flavorings when the SCOBY it *not* present.  I tried blueberries, strawberry-bits, ginger and a few other things.

LEMON may be the best...
